---
title:  "[Python] Chapter 11-1. Read and Write Files"
excerpt: "11. File Input and Output"

categories:
  - Python
tags:
  - [Python]

toc: true
toc_sticky: true
 
date: 2023-08-30
last_modified_at: 2023-08-30
---

&nbsp;

# 1. Store Data
I have used basic Python commands to stored data in variables. However, when you store data in a variable, it is stored in the computer's RAM, which is short-term memory. As a result, the data will be deleted when your computer is turned off. Therfore, we need a different method to store data persistently, and for that, we can use files for input and output operations in Python.

&nbsp;

&nbsp;

&nbsp;

# 2. File Input and Output
The structure of a command for input and output files is as follows.

&nbsp;

```python
fp=open(file, mode)

fp.close()
```

&nbsp;

In the code above, 'fp' is a reference value pointing to a file object. If you declare 'fp', you can read and write data in the file by using a keyword 'fp'. Write a file name in the 'file' part. You can specify the access mode in the 'mode' part. The list of 'mode' is as follows.

&nbsp;

- r: Reading mode. It is a mode only for reading files.
- w: Writing mode. It is a mode to write files. If there are contents in the file, Python will delete all and write new contents.
- a: Adding mode. It is a mode to add new contents to the original contents.
- rb: Reading as a type of binary mode. It is a mode to read files stored as a type of object.
- wb: Writing as a type of binary mode. It is a mode to write files as a type of object.
- ab: Adding now contents as a type of binary.

&nbsp;

If you open a file with the 'w' mode, Python will create a file automatically.

&nbsp;

```python
fp=open("example.txt", "w")

fp.close()
```

&nbsp;

| Output |
|---|
| (Create an 'example.txt' file in the same folder as the code.) |

&nbsp;

You can use the write() function to write contents to the file.

&nbsp;

```python
fp=open("example.txt", "w", encoding="utf-8")

fp.write("Hello World!\n")
fp.write("My name is Shine\n")
fp.write("I'm from Korea\n")

fp.close()
```

&nbsp;

| Output |
|---|
| (Write the contents below in the 'example.txt' file. |
| Hello World |
| My name is Shine |
| I'm from Korea) |

&nbsp;

If you want to read a file, open the file with 'r' mode and use the readline() function. In the code below, data in the file consists of multiple lines, so I used the 'while' loop to print all sentences.

&nbsp;

```python
fp=open("example.txt", "r")

while True:
    data=fp.readline()
    data=data[0:len(data)-1]
    if not data:
        break
    print(data)

fp.close()
```

&nbsp;

| Output |
|---|
| Hello World! |
| My name is Shine |
| I'm from Korea |
