---
title:  "[Calculus] Chapter 1-2. The Proof of a Limit"
excerpt: "Functions and Limits"

categories:
  - Calculus
tags:
  - [Calculus]

toc: true
toc_sticky: true
 
date: 2023-08-02
last_modified_at: 2023-08-03
---

&nbsp;

# 1) The Proof of a Limit
In the Chapter 1-1, we used intuitive methods such as checking the graph or calculating function values, which rely on the fact that the limit and the function value are the same (in the case of a continuous function). In this chapter, we will use a precise method to prove limits.

&nbsp;

## Theorem 1.4: Epsilon-Delta Argument
Suppose that \\(f(x)\\) is defined in an open interval including \\(a\\). Suppose also that, as \\(x\\) approaches \\(a\\), \\(f(x)\\) has a limit \\(P\\). We can precisely prove this using the Epsilon-Delta Argument.

&nbsp;

For every positive number \\(\epsilon\\), if there exists a positive number \\(\delta\\) such that whenever \\(0 < \vert x-a\vert < \delta\\), then \\(\vert f(x)-P\vert < \epsilon\\).

&nbsp;

## Explanation ##
The statement \\(\vert f(x)-P\vert <\epsilon \\) can be interpreted as follows:\
\\(P-\epsilon <f(x)<P+\epsilon \\)

In other words, it means that the function \\(f(x)\\) has values within a specific range centered around \\(P\\). Similarly, the expression \\(0<\vert x-a\vert < \delta \\) can be explained as follows:

- The case of right-hand limit: \\(a<x<a+\delta \\)
- The case of left-hand limit: \\(a-\delta <x<a\\)

At the definition above, we assume that \\(\epsilon\\) and \\(\delta \\) are positive. In other words, \\(\epsilon\\) and \\(\delta \\) can have very small values. In that case, \\(f(x)\\) is very close to \\(P\\), and \\(x\\) is very close to \\(a\\).\
As a result, the existence of \\(\epsilon\\) and \\(\delta\\) that always  satisfy the above conditions implies that when \\(x\\) takes values very close to \\(a\\), the function values of \\(f(x)\\) are very close to \\(P\\). (This aligns with the concept of limits.)

&nbsp;

&nbsp;

&nbsp;

# 2) The Proof of One-Sided Limits
One-sided limits also can be proved by using Epsilon-Delta Argument.

&nbsp;

## 2-1) The Proof of Left-hand Limit
If \\(\displaystyle \lim_{x\to a^-} f(x)=P\\), for every \\(\epsilon >0\\), there exists a corresponding \\(\delta >0\\) such that \\(\vert f(x)-P\vert <\epsilon\\) whenever \\(a-\delta <x<a\\).

&nbsp;

## 2-2) The Proof of Right-hand Limit
If \\(\displaystyle \lim_{x\to a^+} f(x)=P\\), for every \\(\epsilon >0\\), there exists a corresponding \\(\delta >0\\) such that \\(\vert f(x)-P\vert <\epsilon \\) whenever \\(a <x<a+\delta\\).

&nbsp;

&nbsp;

&nbsp;

# 3) The Proof of Limits Increases or Decreases Infinitely
Infinitely increasing limits also can be proved by using Epsilon-Delta Argument.\
If \\(\displaystyle \lim_{x\to a} f(x)=\infty \\), for every positive number \\(M\\), there exists a corresponding \\(\delta >0\\) such that \\(f(x)>M\\) whenever \\(0 <x<\delta\\).

&nbsp;

At the Epsilon-Delta Argument, that explained above, \\(\epsilon\\) means very small number. Like this \\(M\\) means very large number. You can easily understand by substituting this into the explanation above.

&nbsp;

Proof of infinitely decreasing limits are same.\
If \\(\displaystyle \lim_{x\to a} f(x)=-\infty \\), for every negative number \\(N\\), there exists a corresponding \\(\delta >0\\) such that \\(f(x)<N\\) whenever \\(0 <x<\delta\\).

&nbsp;

&nbsp;

&nbsp;

# 4) Asymptotes
When a curve approximate to a straight line, that straight line is defined as an asymptotes. Asymptotes are divided into horizontal asymptotes, vertical asymptotes, and oblique asymptotes depending on their shape. You can also prove the asymptotes by applying Epsilon-Delta Argument. As an example, the process of proving a horizontal asymptote is shown below. Vertical asymptotes and oblique asymptotes can also be proven using the same process.

&nbsp;

## Horizontal Asymptotes
[!image](/assets/images/calculus1.6.png)

&nbsp;

The asymptote of \\(\displaystyle f(x)=1\over x\\) is \\(y=0\\).\
Proof of this by using Epsilon-Delta Argument is follows.\

&nbsp;

1) The case of \\(\displaystyle \lim_{x\to \infty} f(x)=0\\)\
The existence of a positive number \\(M\\) satisfying \\(x>M\\) must be demonstrated for any positive interger \\(\epsilon\\) such that \\(\displaystyle \vert 1\over x-0\vert <\epsilon \\).\
\\(\displaystyle \vert 1\over x-0\vert =\vert 1\over x\vert <\epsilon \\)\
When \\(x\to \infty \\), since \\(x>0\\), \\(1\over x<\epsilon \\) is satisfied. That is, \\(1\over \epsilon <x\\) holds true.\
If we set \\(M=1\over \epsilon \\), then there exists \\(M\\) such that \\(M=1\over \epsilon <x\\). Therefore, \\(\displaystyle \lim_{x\to \infty} f(x)=0\\) is proved.

&nbsp;

2) The case of \\(\displaystyle \lim_{x\to -\infty} f(x)=0\\)\
The existence of a Negative number \\(N\\) satisfying \\(x<N\\) must be demonstrated for any positive interger \\(\epsilon\\) such that \\(\displaystyle \vert 1\over x-0\vert <\epsilon \\).\
\\(\displaystyle \vert 1\over x-0\vert =\vert 1\over x\vert <\epsilon \\)\
When \\(x\to -\infty \\), \\(x<0\\) is satisfied. That is, \\(x<-1\over \epsilon \\) holds true.\
If we set \\(N=-1\over \epsilon \\), then there exists \\(N\\) such that \\(N=-1\over \epsilon <x\\). Therefore, \\(\displaystyle \lim_{x\to -\infty} f(x)=0\\) is proved.
