---
title:  "[Calculus] Chapter 0. Overview"
excerpt: "Overview"

categories:
  - Calculus
tags:
  - [Calculus]

toc: true
toc_sticky: true
 
date: 2023-08-01
last_modified_at: 2023-08-02
---

&nbsp;

# 1. Preface
Calculus is the mathematical study that is used as a tool to analyze the universe, so if you are studying science or engineering, it is very difficult to find the things that do not use calculus. In other words, if you are a science or engineering student, it is a prerequisite for every course that you will take.

&nbsp;

&nbsp;

&nbsp;

# 2. Contents
(*I will update it consistently by adding links of posts.)
## 2-1. Limits and Continuity
[1-1. Limit of a Function](https://shine-loi.github.io/calculus/calculus1-1/)\
[1-2. The Definition of a Limit](https://shine-loi.github.io/calculus/calculus1-2/)\
[1-3. Continuity](https://shine-loi.github.io/calculus/calculus1-3/)
## 2-2. Derivatives
[2-1. Derivatives](https://shine-loi.github.io/calculus/calculus2-1/)\
[2-2. Differentiation Rules](https://shine-loi.github.io/calculus/calculus2-2/)\
[2-3. The Chain Rule](https://shine-loi.github.io/calculus/calculus2-3/)\
[2-4. Implicit Differentiation](https://shine-loi.github.io/calculus/calculus2-4/)\
[2-5. Linearization](https://shine-loi.github.io/calculus/calculus2-5/)
## 2-3. Applications of Differentiation
[3-1. Extreme Values, Maximum Values, and Minimum Values](https://shine-loi.github.io/calculus/calculus3-1/)\
[3-2. The Mean Value Theorem](https://shine-loi.github.io/calculus/calculus3-2/)\
***************Not yet***************\
[3-3. Concavity]()\
[3-4. L'Hospital's Rule]()\
[3-5. Optimization Problems]()\
[3-6. Newton's Method]()\
[3-7. Antiderivatives]()
## 2-4. Integrals
[4-1. Areas and Distances]()\
[4-2. Sigma notation and Limits of Finite Sums]()\
[4-3. The Definite Integral]()\
[4-4. The Fundamental Theorem of Calculus]()\
[4-5. Indefinite Integrals, the Substitution, and the Net Change Theorem]()\
[4-6. The Substitution Rule]()
## 2-5. Applications of Integration 1
[5-1. Volumes Using Cross-Sections]()\
[5-2. Volumes Using Cylindrical Shells]()\
[5-3. Arc Length]()\
[5-4. Areas of Surfaces of Revolution]()\
[5-5. Work and Fluid Forces]()\
[5-6. Average Value of a Function]()
## 2-6. Transcendental Functions
[6-1. The Logarithm Defined as an Integral]()\
[6-2. Exponential Change and Separable Differential Equations]()\
[6-3. Hyperbolic Functions]()\
[6-4. Relative Rates of Growth]()\
## 2-7. Techniques of Integration
[7-1. Integration by Parts]()\
[7-2. Trigonometric Integrals]()\
[7-3. Trigonometric Substitutions]()\
[7-4. Integration of Rational Functions by Partial Fractions]()\
[7-5. Strategy for Integration]()\
[7-6. Integration Using Tables and Computer Algebra Systems]()\
[7-7. Numerical Integration]()\
[7-8. Improper Integrals]()\
[7-9. Probability]()
## 2-8. Applications of Integration 2
[8-1. Arc Length]()\
[8-2. Area of a Surface of Revolution]()\
[8-3. Applications to Physics and Engineering]()\
[8-4. Applications to Economics and Biology]()\
[8-5. Probability]()
## 2-9. First-Order Differential Equations
[9-1. Modeling with Differential Equations]()\
[9-2. Solutions, Slope Fields, and Euler's Method]()\
[9-3. First-Order Linear Equations]()\
[9-4. Applications]()\
[9-5. Graphical Solutions of Autonomous Equations]()\
[9-6. Separable Equations]()\
[9-7. Systems of Equations and Phase Planes]()
## 2-10. Infinite Sequences and Infinite Series
[10-1. Sequences]()\
[10-2. Infinite Series]()\
[10-3. The Integral Test and Estimates of Sums]()\
[10-4. The Comparison Tests]()\
[10-5. Absolute Convergence and The Ratio and Root Tests]()\
[10-6. Alternating Series and Conditional Convergence]()\
[10-7. Strategy for Testing Series]()\
[10-8. Power Series]()\
[10-9. Taylor and Maclaurin Series]()\
[10-10. Applications of Taylor Series]()
## 2-11. Parametric Equations
[11-1. Parametrizations of Plane Curves]()\
[11-2. Calculus with Parametric Curves]()
## 2-12. Polar Coordinates
[12-1. Polar Coordinates]()\
[12-2. Graphing Polar Coordinate Equations]()\
[12-3. Areas and Lengths in Polar Coordinates]()\
[12-4. Conic Sections]()\
[12-5. Conics in Polar Coordinates]()
## 2-13. Vectors and the Geometry of Space
[13-1. Three-Dimensional Coordinate Systems]()\
[13-2. Vectors]()\
[13-3. The Dot Product]()\
[13-4. The Cross Product]()\
[13-5. Equations of Lines and Planes in Space]()\
[13-6. Cylinders and Quadric Surfaces]()\
## 2-14. Vector-Valued Functions and Motion in Space
[14-1. Vector Functions and Space Curves]()\
[14-2. Derivatives and Integrals of Vector Functions]()\
[14-3. Arc Length and Curvature]()\
[14-4. Curvature and Normal Vectors of a Curve]()\
[14-5. Tangential and Normal Components of Acceleration]()\
[14-6. Velocity and Acceleration in Polar Coordinates]()
## 2-15. Partial Derivatives
[15-1. Functions of Several Variables]()\
[15-2. Limits and Continuity in Higher Dimensions]()\
[15-3. Partial Derivatives]()\
[15-4. The Chain Rule]()\
[15-5. Directional Derivatives and Gradient Vectors]()\
[15-6. Tangent Planes and Linear Approximations]()\
[15-7. Maximum and Minimum Values]()\
[15-8. Extreme Values and Saddle Points]()\
[15-9. Lagrange Multipliers]()\
[15-10. Taylor’s Formula for Two Variables]()\
[15-11. Partial Derivatives with Constrained Variables]()
## 2-16. Multiple Integrals
[16-1. Double and Iterated Integrals over Rectangles]()\
[16-2. Double Integrals over General Regions]()\
[16-3. Area by Double Integration]()\
[16-4. Double Integrals in Polar Coordinates]()\
[16-5. Applications of Double Integrals]()\
[16-6. Surface Area]()\
[16-7. Triple Integrals in Rectangular Coordinates]()\
[16-8. Applications]()\
[16-9. Triple Integrals in Cylindrical Coordinates]()\
[16-10. Triple Integrals in Spherical Coordinates]()\
[16-11. Substitutions in Multiple Integrals]()
## 2-17. Vector Calculus
[17-1. Line Integrals of Scalar Functions]()\
[17-2. Vector Fields]()\
[17-3. Line Integrals]()\
[17-4. Path Independence, Conservative Fields, and Potential Functions]()\
[17-5. Green’s Theorem in the Plane]()\
[17-6. Surfaces and Area]()\
[17-7. Surface Integrals]()\
[17-8. Stokes’ Theorem]()\
[17-9. The Divergence Theorem and a Unified Theory]()
## 2-18. Second-Order Differential Equations
[18-1. Second-Order Linear Equations]()\
[18-2. Nonhomogeneous Linear Equations]()\
[18-3. Applications of Second-Order Differential Equations]()\
[18-4. Euler Equations]()\
[18-5. Power-Series Solutions]()
