---
title:  "[Calculus] Chapter 1-1. Limit of a Function"
excerpt: "Functions and Limits"

categories:
  - Calculus
tags:
  - [Calculus]

toc: true
toc_sticky: true
 
date: 2023-08-02
last_modified_at: 2023-08-02
---

&nbsp;

# 1) Limits of Function Values
Sometimes, we need to calculate the value of a function \\(y=f(x)\\) at a point very close to a specific point \\(a\\). For example, let's consider the function \\(y={x^2 -a^2 \over x-a}\\).

&nbsp;

In cases like this, \\(x\\) cannot have the value of \\(0\\) because no fraction cannot have \\(0\\) as a denominator. However, \\(f(x)\\) is defined at all points except for \\(x=a\\). Therfore, we can calculate the limit of the function \\(f(x)\\) at the point \\(a\\). For any \\(x\neq a\\), the function \\(f(x)\\) can be simplified as follows.\
\\(f(x)={x^2 -a^2 \over x-a}={(x+a)(x-a) \over x-a}=x+a, \ x\neq a\\)

&nbsp;

In the given case, \\(f(x)\\) has the value of \\(2a\\) as \\(x\\) close enough to \\(a\\). This represents a fundamental concept of function limits. If \\(f(x)\\) is close to the number \\(P\\) as \\(x\\) is close to \\(a\\), then we say that "\\(f\\) approaches the limit \\(P\\) as \\(x\\) approaches \\(a\\)", and write \\(\lim_{x\rightarrow a} f(x)=P\\). It is crucial to understand that \\(x\\) constantly approaches \\(a\\) but never actually reaches it.

&nbsp;

Following three functions will help you understand it.
!image()

&nbsp;

(a) \\(f(x)={x^2 -1 \over x-1}\\)\
The function \\(f(x)\\) is not defined at \\(x=1\\). However, we can calculate the limit value at that point. This occurs because \\(x\\) continually approaches \\(1\\) but never be \\(1\\) as I mentioned. You can intuitively see that the graph of \\(f(x)\\) approaches \\(2\\) near \\(x=1\\) with Figure 1.1. This result is same as the value calculated from the following expression.\
\\(\lim_{x\rightarrow 1} {x^2 -1 \over x-1}=\lim_{x\rightarrow 1} {(x+1)(x-1) \over x-1}=\lim_{x\rightarrow 1} x+1=2\\)

&nbsp;

&nbsp;

&nbsp;

# 2) Limit Laws
Limit Laws are simplified expressions of fundamental properties of function limits. In calculus, we will use them without proof.

&nbsp;

## Theorem 1.1: Limit Laws
If \\(P\\), \\(Q\\), \\(a\\), and \\(k\\) are real numbers and \\(\lim_{x\rightarrow a} f(x)=P\\) and \\(\lim_{x\rightarrow a} g(x)=Q\\), then\

(1) \\(\lim_{x\rightarrow a} [f(x) \pm g(x)] = P+Q\\)\
(2) \\(\lim_{x\rightarrow a} [k\times f(x)] = k\dot P\\)\
(3) \\(\lim_{x\rightarrow a} [f(x) \times g(x)] = P\dot Q\\)\
(4) \\(\lim_{x\rightarrow a} {f(x) \over g(x)} = {P \over Q}\\), \\(Q\neq 0\\)\
(5) \\(\lim_{x\rightarrow a} [f(x)]^n =P^n\\), \\(n\\) is a positive integer.\
(6) \\(\lim_{x\rightarrow a} \sqrt[n]{f(x)} =\sqrt[n]{P}\\), \\(n\\) is a positive integer.

&nbsp;

## Theorem 1.2: The Sandwich Theorem

&nbsp;

&nbsp;

&nbsp;

# 3) One-Sided Limits

&nbsp;

## Theorem 1.3: 

&nbsp;

&nbsp;

&nbsp;

# 4) Special 
