---
title:  "[Python] Chapter 1-2. Print Data"
excerpt: "1. The Basics of Python"

categories:
  - Python
tags:
  - [Python]

toc: true
toc_sticky: true
 
date: 2023-08-06
last_modified_at: 2023-08-06
---

&nbsp;

# 1. Print Data
## 1-1. print() Function
Python inherently supports the print() function, allowing us to print almost all types of data. The contents within the parentheses of the print() function will be printed by Python.

&nbsp;

```python
print("Hello World")
```

&nbsp;

| Output |
|---|
| Hello World |

&nbsp;

The print() function essentially prints a line break.

&nbsp;

```python
print("Hello")
print("World")
```

&nbsp;

| Output |
|---|
| Hello |
| World |

&nbsp;

When you print strings, you have to use either single quotation marks or double quotation marks. If you want to print single quotation marks, you have to use double quotation marks, and vice versa. Alternatively, you can use backslashes (\\) to print quotation marks. For example, if you write 'print(""Hello World"")', Python will make an error.

&nbsp;

```python
print("'Hello World'")
print('"Hello World"')
print('\'Hello World\'')
print("\"Hello World\"")
```

&nbsp;

| Output |
|---|
| 'Hello World' |
| "Hello World" |
| 'Hello World' |
| "Hello World" |

&nbsp;

Characters that can be printed using a backslash (\\), such as the quotation marks above, are called 'Escape Sequences'. Commonly used examples are as follows:
- \\ \\: print \\
- \\t: print 'tab'
- \\n: print a line break

&nbsp;

```python
print("C:\\Users\\Shine\\Desktop")
print("Name:\tShine")
print("Hello\nWorld")
```

&nbsp;

| Output |
|---|
| C:\Users\Shine\Desktop |
| Name:    Shine |
| Hello |
| World |

&nbsp;

## 1-2. Print According to Format
You can sequentially print various types of data by using a comma (,). In the case of strings, you can concatenate them with '+'. It is important to note that connected data with a comma will automatically include a space between the data, while connected data with '+' will not include a space.

&nbsp;

```python
print("You are", 24, "years old.")
print("You are "+str(24)+" years old.")
```

&nbsp;

| Output |
|---|
| You are 24 years old. |
| You are 24 years old. |

&nbsp;

You can use the % operator instead of a comma or '+'. This method is used in various programming languages such as C, Java and so on.
- %s: String
- %d: Integer
- %f: Real numbers
